Now that you are familiar with Gazebo components,
let's move forward and understand the GUI.
First, we will launch Gazebo from the terminal by typing in Gazebo.
Once it has loaded completely,
you should see something like this.
The Gazebo GUI is divided into four major sections: the scene,
the site panel, the toolbars, and the menu.
The scene is where you will be spending most of your time,
whether you're creating assimilation or running one.
While you can use a trackpad to navigate inside the scene,
a mouse is highly recommended.
You can bend the scene by pressing and dragging the left mouse button.
In addition to that,
if you hold down the Shift key,
you can also rotate the view.
You can zoom in or out by using the mouse scroll,
or by pressing and dragging the right mouse button.
Next, we have a toolbar at the top.
This toolbar provides quick access to some of the cursor modes,
geometric shapes, and views.
Let's look through your options.
Simple shapes, you can insert basic 3D models like cubes,
spheres, or cylinders into the scene.
Select mode, this is
the most commonly used cursor mode and this one allows you to navigate the scene.
Translate mode,
the translate mode cursor allows you to change the position of any model in the scene.
Simply select the cursor mode,
and then use the proper axis to drag the object around, until you're satisfied.
Rotate mode, similar to the translation mode,
this cursor mode allows you to change the orientation of any given model.
Scale mode, this mode allows you to change
the scale and hence the overall size of any model.
Lights, you can also add different light source like a spotlight,
point light, or directional light to the scene.
View change, this tool lets you view the scene from different perspectives like top view,
side view, front view, or bottom view.
You can also press the Home button to return to the home position of the camera.
The left panel has three different tabs: World, Insert, and Layers.
The World tab displays all the lights and models currently in the scene.
By clicking on any individual model,
you can view or edit its basic properties,
like position and orientation.
You can also change some of the physics properties of the scene like
gravity or magnetic field via the physics option.
Insert tab, this is where you will find
all the objects and models to be added to the scene.
You can left click to expand or collapse a list of models.
To place an object in the scene,
left-click the object of interest.
This will bind the object to your mouse cursor.
Now, you can place it anywhere in the scene
by cleft-clicking it again at your desired location.
Layers, this is an optional feature.
This tab will be empty in most cases.
To learn more about the layers,
check out the link in the description below.
Bottom toolbar, the bottom toolbar has a neat,
play and pause button.
This button allows you to pause the simulation and conveniently move objects around.
This toolbar also displays data about the simulation,
such as the simulation time,
the real-time, and the relationship between the two.
There is also a frame per second counter that
can be found to go to your system performance for any given scene.
The menu, some of the menu options are duplicated in the toolbars,
or as right-click contents menu options in the scene.
If you click on Edit,
you can switch to the Building Editor to design buildings,
or the Model Editor to build models.
We will be working with both of these features in the upcoming concepts.
All right. Now that you've understood the Gazebo GUI,
let's move on and simulate our first robot.